President Obama:
Hello, everyone.
I want to spend a couple minutes
talking with you today about
our economy.
We've just come through the
worst recession since the Great
Depression, and while our
economy as a whole has been
growing and adding
private sector jobs,
too many folks are still
struggling to get back
on their feet.
I wish I could tell you
there was a quick fix to our
economic problems.
But the truth is, we didn't
get into this mess overnight,
and we won't get
out of it overnight.
It's going to take time.
The good news is, when it comes
to job creation and economic
growth, there are certain
things we know we can do.
Now, government is not
-- and should not be --
the main engine of job
creation in this country.
That's the role of
the private sector.
But one thing government can
do is partner with the private
sector to make sure that every
worker has the necessary skills
for the jobs they're
applying for.
On Wednesday, I announced
commitments by the private
sector, colleges, and the
National Association of
Manufacturers that will make it
possible for 500,000 community
college students to get a
manufacturing credential that
has the industry's
stamp of approval.
If you're a company
that's hiring,
you'll know that anyone who
has this degree has the skills
you're looking for.
If you're a student
considering community college,
you'll know that your diploma
will give you a leg up in the
job market.
On Monday, I'll travel
to North Carolina,
where I'll meet with my
Jobs Council and talk about
additional steps we can take to
spur private sector hiring in
the short-term and ensure our
workers have the skills and
training they need
in this economy.
There are also a few other
things we know will help grow
our economy, and give people
good jobs that support a
middle-class lifestyle.
We know that a quality education
is a prerequisite for success,
so we're challenging states and
school districts to improve
teaching and learning, and
making it a national goal to
once again have the highest
proportion of college graduates
in the world by 2020.
We know that more and more jobs
are being created in the clean
energy sector, so we're
investing in wind power,
solar power, and biofuels that
will make us less dependent on
foreign oil and clean up our
planet for our children.
These are steps we know will
make a difference in people's
lives -- not just twenty years
from now, or ten years from now,
but now, and in
the months to come.
In the end, the folks I hear
from in letters or meet when I
travel across the country --
they aren't asking for much.
They're just looking for a
job that covers their bills.
They're looking for a
little financial security.
They want to know that if they
work hard and live within their
means, everything
will be all right.
They'll be able to get
ahead, and give their kids a
better life.
That's the dream each of us has
for ourselves and our families.
And so long as I have the
privilege of serving as
President, I'll keep fighting to
put that dream within the reach
of all Americans.
Have a great weekend, everybody.